Alexandra Zytek
Adaptive Neurotechnologies Response Paper
	In this presentation, Dr. Jonathan Wolpaw discussed three types of adaptive neurotechnologies that have improved or come about in recent times. The second of these was EEG-based brain-computer interfaces (BCI). With these, subjects put an EEG sensor on their heads (traditionally, these include a type of conductive gel, but recent advancements have produced dry EEG-based BCIs). The signals gathered by the EEG are then translated into a signal that can control or modify a machine. The use that was discussed most in the lecture was using these tools to allow subjects to move a cursor on a computer screen using nothing but their thoughts. Another example was allowing someone to type by having them focus on letters on a screen. While at first this is difficult to do, with some training subjects can get quite good at controlling the computer, and begin to do so naturally. However, for now, no user has been skilled enough with the technology to feel comfortable using it for a wheelchair, or similar tasks.
	Dr. Wolpaw then discussed some of the current applications of this technology. It will give people who are very disabled, such as those suffering from ALS, a way to communicate with the world through text-based speech. These individuals will often lose most or all modes of communication as they grow sicker. For these people, BCIs can be extremely valuable, even life changing. Dr. Wolpaw also mentioned many other applications, including enhancing or supplementing existing abilities. 
	This presentation made me think of all the potential applications such a technology could have if improved even farther. While the current main focus is on helping the disabled, it could have uses for everyone. However, several obstacles would have to be overcome first before I could conceive it being used on a large scale. First is the price; right now, BCI are rarely used outside of research because they are simply too expensive. However, this is not unlike all new technologies, and this obstacle I am sure will go away as more companies start to produce BCIs and the cost of production decreases. The second obstacle is the inconvenience of use; namely, they require wearing complex EEG headsets. This is already less of a problem with the advent of dry-EEGs however, which require far less setup. Finally, the BCIs would need to be more accurate. No one would want to control an arm or drive a vehicle if it is not perfectly precise. I am curious how much this accuracy would go up if a young child trained on the BCI. Children pick up many skills much faster than adults, and because the technology relies entirely on the brain, it would make sense to train on someone whose brain is still largely developing. Maybe someday learning to control a BCI will be a basic childhood milestone, like learning to walk or talk. It also seems like, because the technology is fairly new, no single subject has put an especially large time into training. Accuracy may increase with training. However, the limiting factor may also be the technology itself. It may not be sensitive enough to detect the subtle differences in brain activity. Again, I believe this will improve a lot over time.
	If these obstacles were be overcome, and an effective wireless system were to be put in effect, the applications of such technology are endless. Mostly, I can see it being applied for simple tasks, maybe like controlling basic appliances in the house at a range. Or they could be combined with virtual reality programs to create an entirely immersive system. And of course, they can continue to greatly improve the quality of life of people with various types of physical handicaps. 
